---
theme: post
title: Reset Phase, Week 1
tags: firstweek resetphase
categories: Weeklyessay
---

I think during this week I just kind of sailed through, well, life, the assigments, the lectures, videos and such; not really paying that much attention to what I was doing. it is only when I started compiling my notes and reflecting on all of the things I did during the week that I think I started connecting the dots of the theme of this week.

First off, we got a little bit of a taste programming wise by doing an exercise in Hackerrank involving stacks and queues, as well as a general overview of the linux shell and bash from and MIT course. While this was pretty basic I still was able to gather some new knowledge, mainly regarding scope in OOP and a couple of interesting commands for parsing text and checking the status of the computer using the shell.

Secondly, as the theme of the month foretold, a lot of the lectures and videos during this week focused on obtaining new habits, thinking more creatively, learning at a more efficent pase, good practices both in the coding side of the business and the people side of business. As an antisocial sort of guy, it is a bit hard to come to terms to a lot of the ideas presented here, and a large part of me behemently refuses to accept some of the things I've read. Whil I think that it is fair to understand the self-preservation instincts of my old, closed off self, I also acknowledge the importance of coming to terms with the fact that a big part of what makes a good developer are their soft skills, their ability to adapt, to see things from others perspective. I think there is value in that way of thinking, and even though I know this is gonna suck a lot for old introverted me, I'm willing to take this path and take a chance.
